# **Welcome to Our User Study on Sketching Narrative Structures!**

# Consent Form

## Invitation to Participate in the Study

You are invited to participate in a study titled "Sketching Narrative Structures". This study is being conducted by the Department of Human Centred Computing, Monash University.
Please read through this explanatory statement before deciding whether to participate. If you require further information regarding any aspect of this project, you are encouraged to contact the researchers via the email addresses provided.

## Project Details

**Project ID:** 36056

**Project Title:** Sketching Narrative Structures

**Student Investigator:**

- Songhai Fan (songhai.fan@monash.edu)

**Co-Investigators:**

- Dr. Ying Yang (ying.yang@monash.edu),
- Professor Tim Dwyer (tim.dwyer@monash.edu),
- Professor Helen Purchase (helen.purchase@monash.edu)
- Assoc Professor Simon Angus (simon.angus@monash.edu)

## What Does the Research Involve?

This study aims to investigate the influence of textual and graphic narrative structures on the understanding and interpretation of news stories. We will use datasets generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) with predefined narrative structures to explore the effectiveness and comprehension of news structures.
If you choose to participate, you will be asked to:

- [ ] Provide a Prolific ID
- [ ] Participate in a user study involving visualisations and narrative structures
- [ ] Finish task and answer questions based on the text or visualisation
- [ ] Complete a survey

Your participation is entirely voluntary and you may choose to withdraw at any stage without any implications.

## Why Were You Chosen for this Research?

You have been invited to participate in this research because your experience and opinions are valuable to our study.

## Confidentiality and Data Storage

The confidentiality of your data is a priority. Any personally identifiable information will not be shared with anyone not involved in this project. All data collected will be stored securely and will be retained for five years after the completion of the study.

## Complaints

Should you have any concerns or complaints about the conduct of the project, you are welcome to contact the Executive Officer, Monash University Human Research Ethics (MUHREC) at muhrec@monash.edu or +61 3 9905 2052.
